---
layout: post
title: history of open source
---

The Cathedral and the Bazaar refers to two different paradigms of software development. The cathedral is a slow, deliberate, and elegant process that likely involves a small core team. The bazaar, on the other hand, is a bustling space with many different independent developers with different skills, that work at a quicker pace but miraculously still manages to be cohesive. Like many authors have mentioned, I would probably prefer different styles for different types of projects. 

Two of the lessons from this work really stood out to me: (1) "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)" and (2) "When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend". 

The first reminds me of one of the most important lessons I learned at my first internship. Before that, most of the code I had written was original, but after being on a team of 50 developers, I learned more and more that original code doesn't necessarily mean you're working in a productive way. Most code had been written in some way before; a lot of my time was looking into the codebase to see how others had solved a similar problem, and saving myself more time in the process. 

The second spoke to me simply because I love the term syntactic sugar. It has such a cute vibe! Syntactic sugar refers to writing an expression or block of code that has the same functionality but is more clear or preferable for humans to read.

--

In the discussion between the words "free" and "open", I find that the double meaning of free is such an interesting English-only anomaly. Free could refer to "free-dom" or simply "no cost". The former could conjure a lot of political meaning, which is why many people refer to this culture as "open" source. Open is simply less controversial, as it doesn't imply anything radical, which makes it more appealling to corporations and developers who aren't involved in open source for moral/political reasons.

--

As for our team project, we met up this week to work on several issues in tandem. Deanna and I were able to mostly finish one issue about updating a curriculum to a new version of the Font Awesome library, among others. In our two hour session this week, we've managed to learn more about how to collaborate using git, how to fix issues that arise with 8 people using one repo at once. Next week, we will be hopefully finishing the first few issues we've tackled, and working to find a few more.