---
layout: post
title: social justice open source
---

Some of the work that I'm proudest of and most passionate about have been in the sphere of social justice and community engagement. This started in high school, where I was involved with after-school education, special ed mentorship, and regularly working at a women's shelter. I'm now invested in critically analyzing structures of domination and oppression and starting to engage in organizing work. Moving towards using my skills at computer science in my work has been a goal of mine, and I want to use this course to get started. 

Last week, in a meeting with other campus activists, we brought up open source and its implications for organizing. How can open source's free and accessible nature create the perfect storm for the empowerment and liberation of marginalized communities? Humanitarian open source and those that support it inspires me, and how can I take this work/make my own work to bring to the issues I personally am invested in?

For me, working in social good open source is easier to get into, because I'm deeply interested in the topic. It can be harder to work in this realm, because oftentimes there are human lives on the line, or a small design choice or bug could have devastating consequences (see: self-driving cars can't see dark skin as well as light skin). The matter of prestige shouldn't be a concern (although it does look very good); people should not be involved simply because it's a good resume padder. 

I chose EBWiki to evaluate. It is a "repository of police abuses against people of color", a centralized place to find real, concrete evidence of racial profiling and violence.


# Project Evaluation 



__Project Name:__ EBWiki, or EndBiasWiki


---

## Finding info about contributing on the website.

In the following section you should only enter the information that you
found on the project website. Some of the answers will be impossible to find, others
may be very hard to find. Do not _google_ for answers.

__Project website:__ https://ebwiki.org/


__What is the purpose of the project:__ "repository of police abuses against people of color"


__How easy was it to find information about contributing on the website?__ There is none: only for volunteer data contributors (those are considered users)


__Contributing instructions:__ Gives step by step instructions on what needs to happen before maintainers merge a PR.

__URL for the code repository:__ https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki

__Bug/Issue tracker link:__ https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/issues

__Mailing list:__ Can't find one

__Chat channel:__ Can't find one

__Other communication channels:__ Can't find one


---

## Finding info at the project repository and bug/issue tracker.

__License:__ Apache 2.0

__Is it [OSI approved](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical) license:__ Yes

__Programming Language:__ Ruby 

__URL for contributing instructions:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/blob/master/docs/DEVELOPMENT.md)

__Are the contributing instructions clear?__ Yes


__URL for code of conduct / community norms / community guildelines:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/blob/master/docs/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

__URL for instructions for users to download and install the package:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/blob/master/docs/SETUP_LOCALLY.md)


__Are these instructions clear? Do you think they would be easy to follow?__ Yes - it includes pictures too


__Number of contributors:__ 38


__Usernames of three contributors with largest number of commits; for
each of them list the link to their latest commit__:

1. trystant / 335
2. StlMaris123 / 172
3. rlgreen91 / 134


__Number of commits:__ 2224

__Latest commit:__ 4 days ago

- __link to the commit:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/commit/2fb6bf3b3817834b4e5b4dfb9e76e42b0a414e59)

- __who made that commit:__ rlgreen91

- __what type of work was commited?__ (was it a fix to a bug, implementation of a new feature, ...) Change to a script for notifications


__Issues__

- __how many open issues are there:__ 183

    - __url for the last issue created:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/issues/2851)

    - __how many users discuss the issue:__ 2
    
    - __when was the issue reported:__ 5 days ago
    

- __how many closed issues are there:__ 2,162
    - __url for the last issue closed:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/issues/2856)
    - __how many users discussed the issue:__ 0
    - __when was the issue reported:__ 4 days ago	
    - __when was the issue closed:__ 4 days ago

- __how active is the discussion on the issues:__ Hit or miss: half the issues have no discussion, the other half have 2-5 each

    - __example of a lot of good discussion:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/issues/2490)
    
    - __example of an issue that does not have much discussion:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/issues/2455)



- __are there issues marked "good for newbies", "beginner" or some other indicators that imply that they are good for beginner contributors:__ There are a few

    - __how many of such issues are there?__ 9
    
    - __look at a few of them, do they look beginner friendly?__ Not sure (I don't know Ruby), but they seem pretty complex for beginner tasks.



- __are there issues marked "documentation" or some other indicators that imply that they are documentation (user or developer specific):__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__ 6
    
    - __look at a few of them, do you think you could submit a fix?__ Yes, but only after discussion with the maintainers (as a lot of them involve writing a post/page about the project) 



__Pull requests__

- __how many open pull requests are there:__ 7

    - __url for the last pull request created:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/pull/2850)
    
    - __when was the last pull request made:__ 5 days ago

    - __url for the oldest pull request created:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/pull/1762)
    
    - __when was the oldest pull request made:__ Jul 13 2018

- __how many closed pull requests are there:__ 504		

    - __url for the last pull request closed:__ [link](https://github.com/EBWiki/EBWiki/pull/2854)
    
    - __how many users discussed the pull request:__ 2
    
    - __when was the pull request made:__ 5 days ago
    
    - __when was the pull request closed:__ 4 days ago
    

- __do maintainers respond quickly to pull requests when they are opened?__ Yes - usually within a day or two





---


## Summary assesment
__How friendly is this project for beginner contributors?__ It seems quite friendly for people who are already familiar with Ruby, as the issues tend to be a little complex. Otherwise, maintainers seem pretty responsive.


__Do the maintainers respond helpfully to questions in issues?__ It seems vast majority of issues are created by the three top maintainers, but half of them have good discussions.


__Are people friendly in the issues, discussion forum, and chat (for example, IRC or Slack)?__ On GitHub, they seem fine and not rude.



__Do pull requests get reviewed?__ It seems that they generally are.



__Do maintainers thank people for their contributions?__ They usually thank new contributors.

