---
layout: post
title: wikipedia
---

I've worked on an issue with missing links on freeCodeCamp recently: it's taking a bit of time as it involves doing a little personal research into developer ethics case studies. That's helped me gain a little more insight into that topic as well. Hopefully, I can submit a PR this week and tackle another issue on the platform.

The kinds of people that contribute to Wikipedia tend to understand the enormity of its influence, and its capacity for empowering communities with knowledge. I don't think many people would contribute to Wikipedia otherwise. 

Access to knowledge and contested archives is something that I've studied extensively as part of my interests at NYU. In many types of media and text, information is researched and presented by a select group. That brings questions of who controls what narrative is being presented? How does power and influence dictate the way that information flows, and collective memory is inscribed? I'm fascinated by Wikipedia because it allows a variety of viewpoints and discussion.

Jimmy Wales' talk illuminated a lot of underlying processes that people don't necessarily know about - for example, all the discussions and votes that hundreds of thousands of people participate in. I've always been interested in why the Tiananmen Square 1989 article called it a protest instead of a massacre, and I looked into the Talk section and saw massive amounts of debate. The general consensus seemed to be that the massacre happened in the last two days, while the protest last a month. The massacre also occurred on the streets of Beijing rather than on the Square itself. A lot of it is semantic, but since Wikipedia has 1.4 billion views monthly, it is of utmost importance that they are mindful of words. And this is why I'm so interested in Wikipedia! I'd love to get involved in discussions and write about historical events.