---
layout: post
title: open source project evaluation
---

Homebrew was an ideal choice for me as a project of interest. I wanted to work with software that I've used and will use in the future, and with a community that is friendly to newcomers. It also is written in Ruby, a language I've been meaning to learn for awhile.

Here is a thorough evaluation of the project:


---

## Finding info about contributing on the website.

__Project website:__ [link](https://brew.sh/)
 

__What is the purpose of the project:__ "Homebrew installs the stuff you need that Apple (or your Linux system) didn’t."


__How easy was it to find information about contributing on the website?__ Very easy - the links are straightforward.


__Contributing instructions:__ Open a PR in the repo, with detailed instructions on how to do so.

__URL for the code repository:__ [link](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew)

__Bug/Issue tracker link:__ [link](https://docs.brew.sh/Troubleshooting)

---

## Finding info at the project repository and bug/issue tracker.

__License:__ BSD 2-clause "Simplified" License.

__Is it [OSI approved](https://opensource.org/licenses/alphabetical) license:__ Yes

__Programming Language:__ Ruby 

__URL for instructions for users to download and install the package:__ On the homepage


__Are these instructions clear? Do you think they would be easy to follow?__ Installation instructions are very clear

__Number of contributors:__ 646

__Latest commit__: 3 hours ago

- __link to the commit:__ [link](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/commit/e1c12de1bade38fe7c1cd86394db485cd3df0466)

- __what type of work was commited?:__ Merging a PR


__Issues__

- __how many open issues are there:__ 16

- __how many closed issues are there:__ 1996

- __how active is the discussion on the issues:__ Very active - at least 2 on each issue

    - __example of a lot of good discussion:__ [link](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/5068)
    
    - __example of an issue that does not have much discussion:__ [link](https://github.com/Homebrew/brew/issues/5691)



- __are there issues marked "good for newbies", "beginner" or some other indicators that imply that they are good for beginner contributors:__ A few currently open

    
    - __look at a few of them, do they look beginner friendly?__ To be honest, it seems most of them still require a steep learning curve, but the documentation states that they are very supportive of beginners.



- __are there issues marked "documentation" or some other indicators that imply that they are documentation (user or developer specific):__

    - __how many of such issues are there?__ 0 


__Pull requests__

- __how many open pull requests are there:__ 14
    
    - __when was the last pull request made:__ 4 minutes ago
    

- __how many closed pull requests are there:__ 3712
    
    - __when was the last closed pull request made:__ 11 hours ago
    
    - __when was the pull request closed:__ 4 hours ago
    

- __do maintainers respond quickly to pull requests when they are opened?__ It seems that there's a quick turnaround on code reviews.


---


## Summary assesment
__How friendly is this project for beginner contributors?__ It's openly very friendly, and there are many contributors, but there are not a lot of simple tasks for complete beginners, and may need some learning before one can submit a PR.


__Do the maintainers respond helpfully to questions in issues?__ It appears that they do.


__Are people friendly in the issues, discussion forum, and chat (for example, IRC or Slack)?__ Not sure - I have not joined.


__Do pull requests get reviewed?__ Yes, every one is reviewed.


__Do maintainers thank people for their contributions?__ Yes
